SESSION 5---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Virtual warehouses :
Load on one virtual warehouse doesnt impact other virtual warehouses

Access to shared data : ALl the virtual warehouses can access the shared data
Individually managed : Each virtual warehouse can be sized according to the need . They can be suspended and resumed when needed.


A virtual warehouse is a temporary computing machine which provides the required resources such as CPU,memory and temporary storage to perform following operation in a snowflake session.

Executing SQL select statements that require compute resources

Performing DML operations  such as 
a)Updating rows in tables(DELETE,INSERT,UPDATE)
b)Loading data into tables(COPY into<table>)
c)Unloading data from tables(COPY into<location>)

To perform all the above warehouse must be running and in use for the session.While a warehouse is running it consumes Snowflake credits.


Impact on data loading

Increase on the size of warehouse does not always impact data loading performance
Data loading performance is influenced more by the number of files being loaded (and the size of each file) than the size pf warehouse


Impact on query processing:

The size of the warehouse can impact the amount of time required to execute queries submitted to the warehouse the larger the more complex queries.
In general query performance scales linearly because additional resources are provisioned with each size increase.

If queries processed by warehouse are running slowly , warewhihouse can be resized to provision more servers

The additional servers do not impact any queries that are aldready running , but they are available to use by any queries that are queued or newly submitted.

cost  = time * size of warehouse
[when u increase the size the duration of query running will change]

When u double the size of warehouse and query runs at the same speed[same]  then cost might increase
but if query runs in half the time cost will remain same.


Auto-suspemsion and auto-resumption
------------------------------------

A warehouse can be set to automaticallyresume or suspend based on activity

It ensures that a warehouse is not left running and consuming credits when there is no incoming queries.
Auto resume ensures that the warehouse start up again as it is needed

Auto resume and auto suspend apply to the entire warehouse and not to clusters 

Query processing and concurrency
------------------------------------

The numer of queries that a warehouse can concurrently process is determined by the size and complexity of each query.
If the warehouse does not have enough remaining resources to process a query , the query is queued , pending resources that become available as other running queries 
complete.


Maximized vs Auto Scale
------------------------

Maximized : This mode is enabled by specifying the same value for both maximum and minimum clusters
Auto-scale : This mode is enabled by specifying different values for moth maximum and minimum clusters

Scaling Policy : eWhen automatically starting or shutting down additional clusters

Recommended:

Auto scale mode: Minimum of 1 and maximum of 2-3 clusters to begin with

Multi-cluster warehouses are best utilized for scaling resoources to improve concurrency for user/queries.Not beneficial for improving performance of queries or 
data loading.Resizing the warehouse will help.

Auto suspend will override all the scaling policies like when no query and when auto suspend for 5 mins will run
2 policies:
a)Standard: Starts new cluster immediately when queueing takes place. shutdown check after 2-3 mins
(More emphasis on performance)

b)Economy : Making sure that all the warehouses are loaded rather than starting new clusters. Shutdown check for 5-6 mins of new cluster when added(More emphasis on cost)

Impact of Warehouse Caches on Queries[Storage layer]
---------------------------------------

Size of the cache is determined by number of servers in the warehouse and therefore larger the size of the cache(with the number of servers like x-large and so on)
Cache is dropped when the warehouse is suspended which may result in slower initial performance for some queries after the warehouse is resumed.
Consider the trade-off between saving credits by suspending a warehouse vresus maintaing a cache of data from prev queries to help in performance.

Storage Costs :
--------

Persistent data stored in permanent tables.
Data retained to enable data recovery(time travel and fail safe)

Metadata and cache results are not storage costs they are considered under cloud service cost

3 kinds of caching:

Metadata cache:(cloud services layer)
No of micropartitions in the tables and count of rows in the table.(Min and max values for each partition, cardinality of each column)

Data cache-Disk Cache-Warehouse Cache-SSD:(Storage layer)
1.Query results are cached in Virtual warehouse memory as well
2.Only available within the virtual warehouse
3.Data is partially fed from the cache if not present entirely in the VH Cache.The other part can be retreived from the storage layer.
4.WH cache gets dropped if the VH is suspended.
5.VH cache contains the data for the selected MicroPartitions /selected columns 
Size of the cache is determined by the number of servers in the warehouse

Query results cache:Result cache(Cloud services layer):
---Stored in S3 but accessed through cloud services layer
Persisted for 24 hours
Every time the ccache is used , 24-hour window is reset for a max of 31 days.


---Result cache is resused if foll conditions are met
1.Query syntax is same as pervious cached query
2.Data in the underlying table has not changed
3.Results cache is still available (gets purged after 24 hours of no usage)
4.Role accessing the cached results has the required privileges.
5.Query doesnt use dynamic values such as CURRENT_TIMESTAMP()


--Use of Results cache can be overridden by using USE_CACHED_RESULTS parameter

[even if suspend the same machine is provisioned so cache be returned]
incrementing the same machine
                                   
What happens when query is submitted

After syntax check
1)Check for result cache(of query)
2)Check for metadata cache
3)Check for SSD cache in warehouse
4)Hit the storage

The query result cache is purged after 24 hours unless another query 
is run which makes use of the cache. The query result cache is retained for a maximum of 31 days after being generated 

Creating a warehouse for similiar set of tables and queries will benefit from warehouse cache.

Q1)Small warehouse: When do you scaleup
a)Multiple queries
b)Concurrent queries
c)No of users
d)Complex queries[Ans is d] because others will result in queuing 

Q2)Virtual warehouse features
a)Auto resume
b)Auto suspend
c)Auto shutdown
d)Auto trigger(Ans is a and b)//U can check in UI								   
								   
Q3)What multi-cluster will do?
a)Scale down when query load is low
b)Add cluster when load increases
c)All of the above[Ans is c]

Q4)Will there be any time gap in provisioning servers between 4X Large WH size and x-small warehouse?
a)True
b)False[Ans is a]becuause 4X will contain more number of servers so it will contain some time gap

Q5)We need a warehouse to load(fetch data) RESULT CACHE?
a)True
b)False[Ans is False]because the main reason of cache is to avoid using compute resources 

Q6)Metadata Cache help to fetch information without Warehouse?
a)True
b)False[Ans is true]

Q7)What is the parameter to set the warehouse in a SUSPENDED state?
a)alter warehouse demo_wh SUSPEND;
b)alter warehouse demo_wh RESUME if suspended;
c)alter warehouse demo_wh RESUME IF shutdown;
d)alter warehouse demo_wh RESUME shutdown;[Ans is a]
[if auto resume is set then when a query is fired it will automatically resume running]
if not then we have start a warehouse explicity


Q8)Are we allowed to change a warehouse while it is running?
a)True
b)False[ans is true]

Q9)which of the following is true for changing the warehouse size from medium to large?
a)Add to higher storage cost
b)DOubles the number of servers
c)More concurrency[Ans is b]In snowflake storage is decoupled from compute so a is ruled out so ans is back

Q10)Warehouse can be resize when a query is running
a)True
b)False(Ans is a)

Q11)Cache which is valid for 24 hours?
a)Metadata
b)SSD
c)None of the above[Ans is c]

Q12)Query result cache needs warehouse to fetch the results.
a)True
b)False[Ans is b]

Q13)select max(salary) from employee table which type of cache is used for the query.
a)data
b)warehouse
c)Query result {Ans is None of the above as max(salary) u will get from metadata cache}//Remember cardinality and min-max from metadata///VVVIIIII


Q14)Which cache requires a warehouse?
a)Data
b)Metadata
c)Query Result[Ans is a]//for b and c will have data in cloud services layer


Q15)Which type of cache can be increased by increasing the warehouse size?
a)Data
b)Metadata
c)Query Result[Ans is a]

Q16)SELECT NAME FROM EMPLOYEE;
SELECT NAME AS EMPLOYEE_NAME FROM EMPLOYEE;
query result cache can be used for second query?
a)True
b)False[Ans is False]Query should be exaclty the same here alias name and hence query will be treated as different 

Q17)Which type of cache contains data from micropartitions?
a)Warehouse
b)Metadata
c)Query result [ans is a]{if data about micropartitions ans would have been b}

Q18)Warehouse cache invalidates when
a)Warehouse is shut down
b)Underlying data changes
c)After 24 hours {only for results cache}
d)All of the above[Ans is a and b]VVVIIIII


