
Authentication -  Access Snowflake via WebUI or connector - (NATIVE/JDBC/ODBC)
--------------
Embedded Multi-factor Authentication, Federated authentication available

Access Control: - Database/Schema/Tables/View/Sequences/FileFormats/Snowpipe/UDF's
--------------
Role based access control model
Granular privileges on all objects and actions

Data encryption:Data at rest/Motion data/Loading/Unloading/Storage
---------------
All data encrypted always , end-to-end
Encyrption keys managed automatically

External validation Network/Policy/Firewall/Password policy/Masking etc
-------------------
certified against enterprise client requirements


MFA-can be implemented to increase Security
MFA is provided by Duo Security services.
Once MFA is installed ,Duo app to be installed by user.
Each user must enable MFA by themself.
All user with accountAdmin role should have MFA enabled.
SSO(SAML 2.0)allows user to access via federated services(IDP identity provider like single sign on)
As long as IPD session is active,they can access Snowflake
SSO/IDP is availale enterprise edition +
MFA can be disabled by Account Admin/Security Admin
MFA
a)IT is self enrolled process can not be done for others.
b)IT can be disabled temporarily or permanently by account admin/Securityadmin.
c)DISABLE_MFA = true,MINS_TO_BYPASS_MFA = 5(alter command)
d)Connector also need MFA is enabled by user.
e)--mfa-password<string>
f)some-jdbc-url&passcode=<string>
g)Different user can utilize single number for MFA , but vice versa isnt possible

OBJECT SECURITY
-----------------
1.All the objects (warehouse/db/schema/table) can be controlled by DAC/RBAC
a)DAC-Discretionary Access Control
b)RBAC - Role based Access control
2.Snowflake implements hybrid model DAC & RBAC
3.DAC handles the ownership , each object has a owner and owner has full access to a object.
4.RBAC - Handle all other access except ownership like object privilege and role access.
Object privilege assign to role which are intern assign to users.

Authorization Access Control
-----------------------------
1.Roles based authorization and not user based authorization.
2.Authorization for all database objects including future objects.
3.Authorization for operations in snowflake like create,stop/start virtual warehouse.

Data Security,Access Log & Encryption:
--------------------------------------
a.All data is encrypted uses AES-256 strong Encryption.
b.All files stored in stage area is automatically Encrypted using AES-256 or +
c.Special edition of SD allowes periodic re-key and customer manage encryption.

2.Connectivity SECURITY
---------------------
a.All communication over internet is via HTTPS.
b.All communication is secure and encrypted via TLS 1.2 or higher.

3.Application Activity Log
  
a.History tab provide all historical commands.
b.All details including session id etc can be viewed.
c.Each query has query id which helps for troubleshooting(no access to data to even SF users)

4.User Access Audit Log
a)Login_history family of table function can be used to query login attempts.

5.Query History:
Query History is available for 14 days , it can be stored in SF table or external system.

6.Infrastructure Monitoring:
Sf users Threat Stack and sumo logic to monitor production Infrastructure.


Network SECURITY
----------------
1)Network policy helps to control the SF access.
2)IP whitelisting-policy can be created to allow or disallow IP's.
3)Private link - private tunnel between customer and cloud provider(ESD or VPS customer)
4.)Private Communication between SF & your VPC(Azure link or AWS link)
5)Only Accountadmin/Securityadmin can create/alter/drop network policy.
6)Snowflake supports is specifying ranges of IP Address using CIDR notation.
7)create network policy my_network BLOCKED_IP_LIST=('1.1.1.1','1.1.1.2')BLOCKED_IP_LIST=('1.1.1.3') comment='my policy'
8)It is possible to temporarily bypass network policy for a set number of minutes by configuring the user object property MINS_TO_BYPASS_NETWORK_POLICY
9)User-level network policies take precedence over account-level network policies and the user level network policy management can be peformed using SQL.
10)Network policy to be enaled once created.

Network Security - Network Policies
^
|
Authentication : MFA
^
|
Object Security - RBAC,DAC
^
|
Data Security
^
|


AccountAdmin will create Network Policies

create network policy mypolicy2 allowed_ip_list = ('','');

desc network policy mypolicy2;

what is the significance of blocked network 

Authentication : MFA-DUO

 Security - Object Access

RBAC -- Every object in Snowflake will be accessed by roles 

DAC - Every object in Snowflake should have an individual owner

All Schema object should have an owner in Discretionay Access Control

SECURITY
--------
Data SECURITY

1)All data automatically encryted using AES 256 strong encryption
2)All files stored in stages for data loading/unloading are automatically encrypted using either AES 128 standard or 256 strong encryption
3)Periodic rekeying of encrypted data
4)Support for encrypted data using customer managed keys

Security Validations
---------------------

1)Soc 1 Type 2 compliance-All
2)Soc 2 Type 2 compliance-All
3)Support for HIPAA compliance-Health insurance , portability-Buisness Critical Edition or higher
4)PCI DISS compliance- Buisness Critical Edition or higher 
5)HITRUST (CSF compliance) - Buisness Critical Edition or higher 
 
 
ACID
-----
Atomic

Consistent

Isolation
1)Read committed isolation:

A statement only sees data that was committed before the statement began.It never sees uncommitted data
Ensures there are no dirty reads



2)Resource Looking:

Update,delete and merge statements hold locks that generally prevent them from running in parallel with other UPDATE,DELETE and MERGE
statements  
Durable
 
 DDL operations are auto commit but DML operations we can choose
DML operations will get locked and after commit lock will be released to prevent dirty reads.
Accountadmin can check for locks in the system and he modify/abort the transactions manually.



Data Sharing in Snowflake:
---------------------------------------
It is a metadata only operation 

Database,schema,tables and secure views can be shared 

Legacy data sharing workflow:
Extract
Encrypt
transmit
Receive 
Decrypt [Decompress]
Load

a)Databases
b)Schemas
c)TABLES
d)Secure Views
e)UDF's
Database, Schemas, Tables, Secure views & Secure UDFs can be shared.
Data sharing will have 2 parties producer and consumer

Producer:Storage Cost
1)Produces data
2)A data provider is any Snowflake account that creates shares and makes them available to other snowflake accounts to consume.
3)Will pay for storage of the data
4)Can share data from Multiple databases in an account


Consumers:Compute Cost
1)Consumes data
2)A data consumer is any Snowflake account that chooses to create a database from a share made available by a data provider.
3)Will pay for compute resources used for querying the shared data. 
4)Role based access.
5)Shared data can be used in Complex Queries.

Reader account is the one who doesnt have snowflake account and wants to perform read so seperate account and access for that person

How to create a share ?

1)Use create share to create a share.At this step, the share is simply a container waiting for objects and accounts to be added.
2)Use the GRANT <privilege> .... TO SHARE command to add a database (and objects in the database) to the share.
3)Use the ALTER SHARE command to add accounts to the share.

Commands:
[Producer creates it]
use role accountadmin;

create share sales_s;
grant usage on database sales_db to share sales_s;
grant usage on schema sales_db.aggregates_eula to share sales_s;
grant select on table sales_db.aggregates_eula.aggregate_1 to share sales_s;

show grants to share sales_s;

alter share sales_s add account=xyz12345,yz12345

show grants of share sales_s;

can drop and revoke any time u want 

If producer makes any changes in the database in the share then automatically it gets reflected for the consumer.

1 share can have only one database
Shares can have n number of accounts
Shares cannot be cloned

Can use revoke command to revoke all the grants 
Compliance Security:
--------------------
1.)HIPAA
2.)PCI(Payment card for Industry for data Security)
3.)NIST 800-53
4.)Soc
5.)Soc-2 type II
6.)SIG Lite(SIG Assessment)(Standardized Information Gathering-SIG Questionnaire Tools allow org to build,customize , analyze and 
store vendor questionnaires)


1.)Network/site access - Site Access is controlled through IP whitelisting and blacklisting,managed through network policies- All snowflake editions
2.)Network/site access - Private/direct communication between Snowflake and other VPCs through AWS privateLink - Buisness Critical/ESD
3.)Account/User authentication - MFA for increased security for account access by users - All
4.)Account/User authentication - SSO though federated authentication - Enterprise and higher
5.)Object Security - Controlled access to all objects through account(users,warehouse,db,etc) through a hybrid model of DAC & RBAC - all
6.)Data Security - All data automatically encryted using AES 256 - All
7.)Data Security - All data stored in stages automatically encryted using(AES-128 or 256) -All
8.)Data Security - Periodic rekeying of encrypted data  - Enterprise (and higher)
9.)Data Security - Support for encrypting data using customer managed keys - ESD
10.)Security Validations - SOC 2 Type II compliance - All
11.)Security Validations - Support for HIPAA compliance - Buisness Critical Edition /ESD
12.)Security Validations - PCI DSS compliance - Buisness Critical Edition /ESD
13.)TriSecret Key - Buisness Critical Edition
14.)FedRAMP

KEY ROTATION:
4 keys
Root Key
Account Master Key(auto rotate> 30 days old)
Table Master Key
File Keys

Task:
----
Tasks when created are suspended state and need ALTER to enter running state.
When a task tree is created it cannot span multiple schemas and all the task in the task tree must be in the same schema

To execute a task, the role being used must have the global EXECUTE TASK privilege on the Account.
Additionally, all the privileges that the SQL statement in the task requires must be available to the role.

Stream:
offset when DML operations are performed
3 types:
Standard
Append only
Insert only(only this mode for External warehouses)

Resource Monitor
----------------

Doesnt work for snowflake created warehouses like automatic reclustering and Snowpipes
Resource monitors can be used to impose limits on the number of credits that are consumed by:
1)User managed virtual warehouses
2)Virtual warehouses used by cloud services
3)Resource monitors can be created by account administrators

Resource monitor support the following actions:
1)Notify & suspend:send notification to all account admin and suspend all warehouses after all statements executed 
2)Notify & suspend immediately : send notification to all account admin and suspend all warehouses immediately 
3)Notify : Perform no action but send an alert notification to all account admin

Each resource monitor can have the following actions:
1)One suspend action
2)One suspend immediately action
3)Up to five notify actions

Resource Monitors have no control over Snowpipe warehouse (credit usage for snowflake provided warehouses like Snowpipe warehouse)
SnowPipe can be used to load data from external as well as internal stages. 
The REST API which is used to trigger a SnowPipe applies to SnowPipe created over external stages as well as internal stages.
Snowpipe doesnt guarantee that the files will be loaded in the same order they arrived in the stage.

Snowpipe uses a server less compute due to which the billing is based on the actual data processed, COPY command uses 
virtual warehouse resources therefore the billing is based on how long the virtual warehouse was active


Resource Monitors can be assigned to account level and resource monitors can be assigned to warehouses 

1)which blocking list takes more precedence?
a)Allowed IP List
b)Blocked IP List (Ans is b)

2)MFA is not suggested for AccountAdmin
1)True
2)False(Ans is False)

3)Users own objects in snowflake
1)True
2)False(Ans is False)Roles own objects in snowflake

4)Data at rest is always encryted on Snowflake
1)True
2)False(ANs is true that is by default)

5)Producers are charged for compute
1)True
2)False(Ans is False storage)

6)Consumers are charged for compute
1)True
2)False(Ans is True)

7)Snowflake account is a mandate for reader account
1)True
2)False(Ans is False)

8)You can revoke privileges on Shared objects
1)True
2)False(Ans is True)

9)Data sharing involves physical movement of data
1)True
2)False(Ans is False)

10)Account admin /roles having required privileges can act on resource monitors
1)True
2)False(Ans is True)

11)One warehouse can be assigned to many monitors
1)True
2)False(Ans is False)

12)One monitor can be assigned to many warehouses
1)True
2)False(Ans is True)

